- [Instructor] When I first started
my software development career,
I thought that applications,
and use involve nothing more
than writing code and pushing them to production.
I had no clue about all the steps,
and checks involved in producing
high-quality production-ready applications.
Since then, I've learned
that deploying code production environment
should require a thorough period
of capturing requirements.
Writing code with appropriate unit,
and integration test,
and conducting code reviews,
conducting user testing,
and then deploying the code
of the product to production.
Most of these stages
require an environmental sandbox
for those lifecycle processes to occur.
This should be nothing new for most of us.
With usually three or more staging environments
for the different lifecycle processes
of development, testing, and production.
This is why environmental profiles,
and our applications are so important.
And Spring solves this with Spring Profiles.
The data used in development,
client testing and production are similar
but we also know that the data
should be distinctly sandbox
because they differ.
Obvious stuff, right?
What we're all thinking about here
is how to provide a clean,
and maintainable way to store our property files
that are externalized,
and environment-specific.
According to Spring,
Spring Profiles provides a way
to segregate parts
of our application configuration,
and make it available only
in certain environments.
Any at component, at configuration
or at configuration properties
can be marked with that profile to limit
when it is loaded.
This checks to the boxes
of making our property files externalized,
and environment-specific.
We'll be talking later
about how to make our property
files clean and maintainable in a moment.
With Spring, you can use
either application.properties
or application.yml
Identifying the environment
for property files is as simple as suffix
in your property files with format,
application-profile.properties.
For example, application-dev.properties
is for development.
application-test.properties would be for test
and application-prod would be for product.
Now, similarly,
you can have one or more property files
with all of the environments
separated with headings that say
spring.config.activate.on-profile=dev.
The section underneath would contain
the properties.
And this is closed with a hashtag
with three dashes.
With yml file-based configuration,
you'll find a very similar story
with all the properties in one yml file,
separated by triple dashes,
a line break,
and then spring
with profile values identifying the environment.
Now, there's much more to be said,
and much more we're going to get into with these
but as you can see,
profiles using Spring property files
or yml file-based configuration gives us
externalized environment-specific and clean,
and maintainable configurations
for our applications.